# Stability and Reliability

The ability of the system to meet demand safely and effectively. Reliability - the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) has a reliability goal of one day unforced outage per 10 years. Stability - ANSI requires voltages vary by no more than 5% from nominal (120V in US). [[Giani 2021](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-021-00786-3)]

Want to survive contingencies, such as the failure of a transmission line or electricity generating resource. In case of such a disturbance, the extra power capacity must be met, and it should be quickly available to prevent mismatches between supply and demand that could bring down the system. “This can be modeled in terms of the normal modes of the electrical system; any excitations away from the equilibrium state should be shown to damp out naturally on short time scales—ranging from milliseconds to a few minutes.” The system must also be able to find a new long-term solution after a loss. [[Giani 2021](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-021-00786-3)]

Grover’s algorithm may be adapted to perform other types of search than database to search and evaluate many configurations against a known function, also known as amplitude estimation. One application may be to give the quantum computer a set of unsafe contingencies so it can search for scenarios that might lead to blackouts or grid instability. Quantum risk analysis algorithms that speed up Monte Carlo simulations, which are commonly used in power system reliability studies, have been demonstrated. [[Giani 2021](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-021-00786-3)]

HHL has an exponential speedup over the best known classical algorithms for linear systems of equations. This might be used for state estimation of the power system, detecting dangerous anomalies. It can also be used to solve differential equations that must be evaluated to determine how the power system will respond to transient disturbances. However, HHL will require a large number of qubits and very low error rates, so it is unlikely to run on NISQ devices. [[Giani 2021](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-021-00786-3)]

Quantum search and linear systems analysis could help identify weaknesses in a complicated power system. [[Giani 2021](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-021-00786-3)]
