# Quantum Computing Applications for Renewable Energy

Stephen Habegger\
University of Washington\
Phys 575 (Winter 2022)

Quantum computers are capable of solving certain types of problems more
efficiently than classical computers. Future applications of large-scale fully
error-corrected quantum computers include database search and, famously,
factoring of large primes, which would enable breaking of many current
encryption schemes. However, current and near term devices, or so-called NISQ
(noisy intermediate-scale quantum) machines
[[Preskill 2018](https://doi.org/10.22331/q-2018-08-06-79)], are still searching
for applications. These may include certified random number generators,
chemistry research, development of new materials and more.

Richard Feynman [[Feynman 1982](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02650179)] famously
suggested that quantum computers could be used to simulate the physics of the
real world, which is, after all, ruled by quantum mechanics. Therefore, a
quantum computer may be ideal to model natural systems, enabling us to determine
the properties and behavior of new molecules and materials much more quickly
than could be done in a physical laboratory. The physics discovered and the
materials developed in this way may be invaluable as we develop clean and
renewable forms of energy. However, quantum computing may support this effort in
another way, yet, as there are a number of promising quantum-based algorithms in
development that may be able to solve certain optimization problems much more
quickly than classical computers.

Complexity of power networks is expected to increase, as the number of power plants increases. [[Ajagekar 2019](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2019.04.186)]

Quantum computing has been identified as a potentially useful tool in quantum chemistry, machine learning, cryptography and optimization. 
Complexity of power networks is expected to increase, as the number of power plants increases. [[Ajagekar 2019](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2019.04.186)]