# Unit Commitment

“Day-ahead unit commitment is another important energy system problem that suffers from power forecast errors. Unit commitment requires that operators identify which plants should be started up, running, and prepared to provide power considering operational, technical, economic, and environmental constraints such as thermal line limits, voltage magnitude limits, nodal balancing constraints, and reserve requirements. As a result, unit commitment determines the conditions that will become constraints for the AC OPF calculation in real time. This problem requires the solution of a mixed integer linear programming problem that is not convex and, therefore, hard to solve.” [[Giani 2021](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42979-021-00786-3)]

Unit commitment is generally formulated as a mixed-integer nonlinear optimization problem and is NP-hard. A variety of heuristics have been used to solve unit commitment, but with the large and increasing number of power plants, this problem may become intractable. [[Ajagekar 2019](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2019.04.186)]

The goal of unit commitment is to minimize the cost of operating a number of energy sources while meeting demand, while obeying all system constraints. The cost function can be formulated as

<math display="block"><mrow><mi>C</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><munder><mo>&sum;</mo><mi>i</mi></munder><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><msub><mi>y</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>B</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><msub><mi>p</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>C</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><msubsup><mi>p</mi><mi>i</mi><mn>2</mn></msubsup></math>

where <math><msub><mi>y</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></math> is a binary variable that indicates whether energy source <math><mi>i</mi></math> is online and <math><msub><mi>p</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></math> is the power output of the source. <math><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></math>, <math><msub><mi>B</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></math> and <math><msub><mi>C</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></math> are constants particular to each energy source.

[Ajagekar 2019](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2019.04.186) mapped a series of unit commitment instances with varying numbers of energy sources onto [QUBO](../../quantum/models/qubo.md) and solved the same instances using a classical optimizer. As the size of the problem grew, the solutions given by the D-Wave system decreased in quality compared to solutions from the classical optimizer with poor scaling. As a mixed-integer nonlinear optimization problem, unit commitment may not benefit from quantum computing until a fully fault-tolerant universal [circuit-based](../../quantum/architectures/circuit.md) quantum computer is built.